Release 1.5.0 (#2778)
nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric: CHANGELOG.md

BREAKING CHANGES:

- NGINX Plus R33 support added. The NGINX Plus release now requires a valid JSON Web Token (JWT) in order to run. Users of NGINX Plus _must_ have this JWT added to a Secret before installing NGINX Gateway Fabric v1.5.0. See the [NGINX Plus JWT](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/installation/nginx-plus-jwt/) guide for information on setting this up. [2760](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2760)

FEATURES:

- Add support to retain client IP information. [2284](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2284)
- Add the ability to configure data plane error log level. [2603](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2603)
- Introduce SnippetsFilter API, which allows users to inject custom NGINX configuration via an HTTPRoute or GRPCRoute filter. See the [SnippetsFilter guide](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/traffic-management/snippets/) for information on how to use SnippetsFilters. [2604](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2604)
- Reduce logging verbosity of default Info log level. [2455](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2455)

BUG FIXES:

> - Fix an issue of only setting stream status zone if hostname exists. [2684](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2684)

Reviewer: The release note from the PR for this says

```Stream status_zone directive is no longer set if its value is empty.```

Let's use that.

a [GitHub release](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/releases), which, by contrast, is auto-generated
and includes links to all PRs that went into the release.

## Release 1.5.0

_November 20, 2024_

BREAKING CHANGES:

- NGINX Plus R33 support added. This release of NGINX Plus requires a valid JSON Web Token (JWT) in order to run. Users of NGINX Plus _must_ have this JWT added to a Secret before installing NGINX Gateway Fabric v1.5.0. See the [NGINX Plus JWT](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/installation/nginx-plus-jwt/) guide for information on setting this up. [2760](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2760)

FEATURES:

> - Add support to retain client IP information. [2284](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2284)

Reviewer 2: Proxy Protocol is an option, but you can also use XForwardedFor header.

> - Add ability to configure data plane error log level. [2603](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2603)

Reviewer 3: Copying and pasting this in the multiple threads it's come up in (Just in case it's lost):

We stick to present tense and imperative mood: which I would think of as "a command to do something now".

If it helps, the mental model is as though you are giving a computer an instruction.

This style is used in conventional commits, as though you are instructing git to make changes while going through revisions.

- "Add new feature"
- "Change thing"
- "Remove item"

And so forth. I hadn't noticed it was inconsistent in prior release: my apologies.

> - Introduce SnippetsFilter API, which allows users to inject custom NGINX configuration via an HTTPRoute or GRPCRoute filter. See the [SnippetsFilter guide](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/traffic-management/snippets/) for information on how to use SnippetsFilters. [2604](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2604)

Reviewer 4: Yeah agreed! Past tense is better

> - Introduce SnippetsFilter API, which allows users to inject custom NGINX configuration via an HTTPRoute or GRPCRoute filter. See the [SnippetsFilter guide](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/traffic-management/snippets/) for information on how to use SnippetsFilters. [2604](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2604)

Reviewer 2: @salonichf5 can we wait for @ADubhlaoich to chime in on the tense? Looking through our old release notes and we use a mix of tenses, and I'd like to be consistent moving forward.

> - Introduce SnippetsFilter API, which allows users to inject custom NGINX configuration via an HTTPRoute or GRPCRoute filter. See the [SnippetsFilter guide](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/traffic-management/snippets/) for information on how to use SnippetsFilters. [2604](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2604)

Reviewer 4: okay, sounds good. I'll update as needed. I followed the process for previous release which was sort of mix of present tense or past tense.

> - Introduce SnippetsFilter API, which allows users to inject custom NGINX configuration via an HTTPRoute or GRPCRoute filter. See the [SnippetsFilter guide](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/traffic-management/snippets/) for information on how to use SnippetsFilters. [2604](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2604)

Reviewer 3: Copying and pasting this in the multiple threads it's come up in (Just in case it's lost):

We stick to present tense and imperative mood: which I would think of as "a command to do something now".

If it helps, the mental model is as though you are giving a computer an instruction.

This style is used in conventional commits, as though you are instructing git to make changes while going through revisions.

- "Add new feature"
- "Change thing"
- "Remove item"

And so forth. I hadn't noticed it was inconsistent in prior release: my apologies.

> - Introduce SnippetsFilter API, which allows users to inject custom NGINX configuration via an HTTPRoute or GRPCRoute filter. See the [SnippetsFilter guide](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/traffic-management/snippets/) for information on how to use SnippetsFilters. [2604](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2604)

Reviewer 4: Sounds good. I'll update it!

a [GitHub release](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/releases), which, by contrast, is auto-generated
and includes links to all PRs that went into the release.

## Release 1.5.0

_November 20, 2024_

FEATURES:

> - Add support to retain client IP information by @salonichf5 in https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2284

Reviewer: As part of this, you don't need to include everyone's names. We haven't done that in the past except for external contributors.

> - Add support to retain client IP information by @salonichf5 in https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2284

Reviewer: Sorry, I'm being really nitpicky here, but just trying to be consistent. The past notes just have the release note and then period followed by PR, not `in [xxx]` format that you have.

> - Add support to retain client IP information by @salonichf5 in https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2284

Reviewer 4: no worries, i have fixed it now

> - NGINX Plus R33 support added by @sjberman in [2760](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2760). This release of NGINX Plus requires a valid JSON Web Token (JWT) in order to run. Users of NGINX Plus _must_ have this JWT added to a Secret before installing NGINX Gateway Fabric v1.5.0. See the [NGINX Plus JWT](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/installation/nginx-plus-jwt/) guide for information on setting this up in [2760](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2760)

Reviewer 2: Do we need to link to the PR twice?

FEATURES:

- Add support to retain client IP information by @salonichf5 in [2284](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2284)

> - Add ability to assign a log level for the data plane by @bjee19 in [2603](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2603)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add ability to assign an error log level for the data plane by @bjee19 in [2603](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2603)
```

> - Add support to apply SnippetsFilter in NGINX configuration. [2604](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2604)

Reviewer 2: Can we change this to something like this:
```suggestion
- Introduce SnippetsFilter API, which allows users to inject custom NGINX configuration via an HTTPRoute or GRPCRoute filter. See the [SnippetsFilter guide](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-gateway-fabric/how-to/traffic-management/snippets/) for information on how to use SnippetsFilters.  [2604](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2604)
```

cc @mpstefan

- Reduced logging verbosity of default Info log level. [2455](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2455)

BUG FIXES:

- Only set stream status zone if hostname exists. [2684](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2684)

> - Use correct indentation in lifecycle examples. [2588](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2588). Thanks to [Derek F](https://github.com/defrank).

Reviewer: This is actually a docs change, not a bug fix.

- Fix an issue with upstream names when split clients are used with a namespace name that starts with a number. [2730](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2730)
- Return 503 when service has no ready endpoints. [2696](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/pull/2696)

DOCUMENTATION:

> 

Reviewer 4: I am confused with what change is expected? You think I should just have entries of new doc changes?

> 

Reviewer 2: Sorry for the confusion. I'm suggesting linking to the docs referenced. 

For example:

```
Add [guide](LINK TO GUIDE) for SnippetsFilter.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: This suggestion is based off of the documentation section in our 1.3 release notes: https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md#release-130.

Basically, let's add a link to the referenced doc for any net-new document/guide.

> 

Reviewer 4: Yes, makes sense. I updated the links with the doc link for each entry. Expect for the one community PR link, which basically edits the indentation.

> 

Reviewer 2: We still want to link the PR that added the document. My bad for not including that in my example above. 

A couple other things:
- For the "proxyProtocol and rewriteClientIP" doc can we link to the relevant section in the data-plane-configuration.md doc?
- I don't think we need to link to the helm install doc for the "Add description for enabling experimental features" since it's not a large add or net-new doc.

> 

Reviewer 4: I apologize. I didn't see the other comment until later. 
I have fixed it. Linked the document, and the sections along with PR links. 

I have removed entries for non-new documents.
